api-reference/beta/api/chat-list-messages.md, before:

---
title: "List messages in a chat"
description: "Retrieve the list of messages in a chat."
ms.localizationpriority: high
author: "RamjotSingh"
ms.prod: "microsoft-teams"
doc_type: apiPageType
---

# List messages in a chat

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Retrieve the list of [messages](../resources/chatmessage.md) in a [chat](../resources/chat.md).

This method supports federation. To list chat messages in application context, the request must be made from the tenant that the channel owner belongs to (represented by the **tenantId** property on the channel).

> **Note**: This API supports subscribing to changes (create, update, and delete) using [change notifications](../resources/webhooks.md). This allows callers to subscribe and get changes in real time. For details, see [Get notifications for messages](/graph/teams-changenotifications-chatmessage).

## Permissions

One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

|Permission type      | Permissions (from least to most privileged)              |
|:--------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|
|Delegated (work or school account) | Chat.Read, Chat.ReadWrite |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account) | Not supported.    |
|Application | ChatMessage.Read.Chat*, Chat.Read.All, Chat.ReadWrite.All |

> **Note**: Permissions marked with * use [resource-specific consent](/microsoftteams/platform/graph-api/rsc/resource-specific-consent).

> [!NOTE]
> Before calling this API with application permissions, you must request access. For details, see [Protected APIs in Microsoft Teams](/graph/teams-protected-apis).

## HTTP request

<!-- { "blockType": "ignored" } -->
```http
GET /me/chats/{chat-id}/messages
GET /users/{user-id | user-principal-name}/chats/{chat-id}/messages
GET /chats/{chat-id}/messages
```

## Optional query parameters

This method supports the following [OData query parameters](/graph/query-parameters).

| Name      | Description          |
|:----------|:---------------------|
| [$top](/graph/query-parameters#top-parameter)| Controls the number of items per response. Maximum allowed `$top` value is 50. |
| [$orderBy](/graph/query-parameters#orderby-parameter)  | Currently supports the **lastModifiedDateTime** (default) and **createdDateTime** properties in descending order. The ascending order is currently not supported.|
| [$filter](/graph/query-parameters#filter-parameter) | Sets the date range filter for the **lastModifiedDateTime** and **createdDateTime** properties. The **lastModifiedDateTime** property supports the `ge` and `le` operators. The **createdDateTime** property supports the `le` operator. You can only filter results if the request URL contains the `$orderBy` and `$filter` query parameters configured for the same property; otherwise, the `$filter` query option is ignored.|

The other [OData query parameters](/graph/query-parameters) are not currently supported.

## Request headers

| Header       | Value |
|:---------------|:--------|
| Authorization  | Bearer {token}. Required.  |

## Request body

Do not supply a request body for this method.

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `200 OK` response code and a collection of [chatMessage](../resources/chatmessage.md) objects in the response body.

## Examples

### Example 1: List chat messages sorted by creation date

The following is an example of a request that lists the top two messages (`$top=2`) and sorts them by the **createdDateTime** property (`$orderBy=createdDateTime`).

#### Request

The following example shows the request.

# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "get_allchatmessages_1",
  "sampleKeys": ["19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2"]
}-->
```msgraph-interactive
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=createdDateTime desc
```

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/csharp/get-allchatmessages-1-csharp-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/javascript/get-allchatmessages-1-javascript-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Java](#tab/java)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/java/get-allchatmessages-1-java-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Go](#tab/go)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/go/get-allchatmessages-1-go-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/powershell/get-allchatmessages-1-powershell-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PHP](#tab/php)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/php/get-allchatmessages-1-php-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

---


#### Response
The following example shows the response.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.chatMessage",
  "isCollection": true
} -->
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json

{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#chats('19%3A2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437%40thread.v2')/messages",
    "@odata.count": 2,
    "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$skiptoken=M2UyZDAwMDAwMDMxMzkzYTMyNjQ2MTM0NjMzMjM5NjYzNjY0MzczMDM0MzE2NTYzNjEzNzMwNjIzNjMzMzg2MjM0MzM2NDM0MzUzNDMzMzc0MDc0Njg3MjY1NjE2NDJlNzYzMjAxZThmYjY4M2Y3ODAxMDAwMDg4NjA5ODdhNzgwMTAwMDB8MTYxNjk2NDUwOTgzMg%3d%3d",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1616964509832",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1616964509832",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2021-03-28T20:48:29.832Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2021-03-28T20:48:29.832Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "text",
                "content": "Hello world"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        },
        {
            "id": "1615971548136",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1615971548136",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2021-03-17T08:59:08.136Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2021-03-17T08:59:08.136Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "html",
                "content": "<div><div><div><span><img height=\"63\" src=\"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages/1615971548136/hostedContents/aWQ9eF8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNix0eXBlPTEsdXJsPWh0dHBzOi8vdXMtYXBpLmFzbS5za3lwZS5jb20vdjEvb2JqZWN0cy8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNi92aWV3cy9pbWdv/$value\" width=\"67\" style=\"vertical-align:bottom; width:67px; height:63px\"></span></div></div></div>"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        }
    ]
}
```

### Example 2: List chat messages filtered by last modified date range

The following is an example of a request that lists the top two messages (`$top=2`), sorts them in descending order by the **lastModifiedDateTime** property (`$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc`), and filters the results for a specific date range (`$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z`).

#### Request

The following example shows the request.


# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "list_chat_messages_2",
  "sampleKeys": ["19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2"]
}-->
```msgraph-interactive
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc&$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z
```

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/csharp/list-chat-messages-2-csharp-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/javascript/list-chat-messages-2-javascript-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Java](#tab/java)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/java/list-chat-messages-2-java-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Go](#tab/go)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/go/list-chat-messages-2-go-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/powershell/list-chat-messages-2-powershell-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PHP](#tab/php)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/php/list-chat-messages-2-php-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

---


#### Response

The following example shows the response.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.chatMessage",
  "isCollection": true
} -->
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json

{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#chats('19%3A2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437%40thread.v2')/messages",
    "@odata.count": 2,
    "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc&$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z&$skiptoken=M2UyZDAwMDAwMDMxMzkzYTMyNjQ2MTM0NjMzMjM5NjYzNjY0MzczMDM0MzE2NTYzNjEzNzMwNjIzNjMzMzg2MjM0MzM2NDM0MzUzNDMzMzc0MDc0Njg3MjY1NjE2NDJlNzYzMjAxZThmYjY4M2Y3ODAxMDAwMDg4NjA5ODdhNzgwMTAwMDB8MTYxNjk2NDUwOTgzMg%3d%3d",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1616964509832",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1616964509832",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "text",
                "content": "Hello world"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        },
        {
            "id": "1615971548136",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1615971548136",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "html",
                "content": "<div><div><div><span><img height=\"63\" src=\"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages/1615971548136/hostedContents/aWQ9eF8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNix0eXBlPTEsdXJsPWh0dHBzOi8vdXMtYXBpLmFzbS5za3lwZS5jb20vdjEvb2JqZWN0cy8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNi92aWV3cy9pbWdv/$value\" width=\"67\" style=\"vertical-align:bottom; width:67px; height:63px\"></span></div></div></div>"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        }
    ]
}
```

<!-- uuid: 8fcb5dbc-d5aa-4681-8e31-b001d5168d79
2015-10-25 14:57:30 UTC -->
<!--
{
  "type": "#page.annotation",
  "description": "Get chat messages",
  "keywords": "",
  "section": "documentation",
  "tocPath": "",
  "suppressions": [
  ]
}
-->

Commit message:

Added note about national cloud environment support.

api-reference/beta/api/chat-list-messages.md, after:

---
title: "List messages in a chat"
description: "Retrieve the list of messages in a chat."
ms.localizationpriority: high
author: "RamjotSingh"
ms.prod: "microsoft-teams"
doc_type: apiPageType
---

# List messages in a chat

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Retrieve the list of [messages](../resources/chatmessage.md) in a [chat](../resources/chat.md).

This method supports federation. To list chat messages in application context, the request must be made from the tenant that the channel owner belongs to (represented by the **tenantId** property on the channel).

> **Note**: This API supports subscribing to changes (create, update, and delete) using [change notifications](../resources/webhooks.md). This allows callers to subscribe and get changes in real time. For details, see [Get notifications for messages](/graph/teams-changenotifications-chatmessage).

## Permissions

One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

|Permission type      | Permissions (from least to most privileged)              |
|:--------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|
|Delegated (work or school account) | Chat.Read, Chat.ReadWrite |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account) | Not supported.    |
|Application | ChatMessage.Read.Chat*, Chat.Read.All, Chat.ReadWrite.All |

> **Note**: Permissions marked with * use [resource-specific consent](/microsoftteams/platform/graph-api/rsc/resource-specific-consent).

> [!NOTE]
> Before calling this API with application permissions, you must request access. For details, see [Protected APIs in Microsoft Teams](/graph/teams-protected-apis).

## HTTP request

<!-- { "blockType": "ignored" } -->
```http
GET /me/chats/{chat-id}/messages
GET /users/{user-id | user-principal-name}/chats/{chat-id}/messages
GET /chats/{chat-id}/messages
```

## Optional query parameters

This method supports the following [OData query parameters](/graph/query-parameters).

| Name      | Description          |
|:----------|:---------------------|
| [$top](/graph/query-parameters#top-parameter)| Controls the number of items per response. Maximum allowed `$top` value is 50. |
| [$orderBy](/graph/query-parameters#orderby-parameter)\*  | Currently supports the **lastModifiedDateTime** (default) and **createdDateTime** properties in descending order. The ascending order is currently not supported.|
| [$filter](/graph/query-parameters#filter-parameter) | Sets the date range filter for the **lastModifiedDateTime** and **createdDateTime** properties. The **lastModifiedDateTime** property supports the `ge` and `le` operators. The **createdDateTime** property supports the `le` operator. You can only filter results if the request URL contains the `$orderBy` and `$filter` query parameters configured for the same property; otherwise, the `$filter` query option is ignored.|

The other [OData query parameters](/graph/query-parameters) are not currently supported.

\* The `orderBy` parameter is not supported in the GCC and Gallatin national cloud environments.

## Request headers

| Header       | Value |
|:---------------|:--------|
| Authorization  | Bearer {token}. Required.  |

## Request body

Do not supply a request body for this method.

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `200 OK` response code and a collection of [chatMessage](../resources/chatmessage.md) objects in the response body.

## Examples

### Example 1: List chat messages sorted by creation date

The following is an example of a request that lists the top two messages (`$top=2`) and sorts them by the **createdDateTime** property (`$orderBy=createdDateTime`).

#### Request

The following example shows the request.

# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "get_allchatmessages_1",
  "sampleKeys": ["19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2"]
}-->
```msgraph-interactive
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=createdDateTime desc
```

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/csharp/get-allchatmessages-1-csharp-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/javascript/get-allchatmessages-1-javascript-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Java](#tab/java)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/java/get-allchatmessages-1-java-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Go](#tab/go)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/go/get-allchatmessages-1-go-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/powershell/get-allchatmessages-1-powershell-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PHP](#tab/php)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/php/get-allchatmessages-1-php-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

---


#### Response
The following example shows the response.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.chatMessage",
  "isCollection": true
} -->
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json

{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#chats('19%3A2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437%40thread.v2')/messages",
    "@odata.count": 2,
    "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$skiptoken=M2UyZDAwMDAwMDMxMzkzYTMyNjQ2MTM0NjMzMjM5NjYzNjY0MzczMDM0MzE2NTYzNjEzNzMwNjIzNjMzMzg2MjM0MzM2NDM0MzUzNDMzMzc0MDc0Njg3MjY1NjE2NDJlNzYzMjAxZThmYjY4M2Y3ODAxMDAwMDg4NjA5ODdhNzgwMTAwMDB8MTYxNjk2NDUwOTgzMg%3d%3d",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1616964509832",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1616964509832",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2021-03-28T20:48:29.832Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2021-03-28T20:48:29.832Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "text",
                "content": "Hello world"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        },
        {
            "id": "1615971548136",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1615971548136",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2021-03-17T08:59:08.136Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2021-03-17T08:59:08.136Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "html",
                "content": "<div><div><div><span><img height=\"63\" src=\"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages/1615971548136/hostedContents/aWQ9eF8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNix0eXBlPTEsdXJsPWh0dHBzOi8vdXMtYXBpLmFzbS5za3lwZS5jb20vdjEvb2JqZWN0cy8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNi92aWV3cy9pbWdv/$value\" width=\"67\" style=\"vertical-align:bottom; width:67px; height:63px\"></span></div></div></div>"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        }
    ]
}
```

### Example 2: List chat messages filtered by last modified date range

The following is an example of a request that lists the top two messages (`$top=2`), sorts them in descending order by the **lastModifiedDateTime** property (`$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc`), and filters the results for a specific date range (`$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z`).

#### Request

The following example shows the request.


# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "list_chat_messages_2",
  "sampleKeys": ["19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2"]
}-->
```msgraph-interactive
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc&$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z
```

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/csharp/list-chat-messages-2-csharp-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/javascript/list-chat-messages-2-javascript-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Java](#tab/java)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/java/list-chat-messages-2-java-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Go](#tab/go)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/go/list-chat-messages-2-go-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/powershell/list-chat-messages-2-powershell-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PHP](#tab/php)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/php/list-chat-messages-2-php-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

---


#### Response

The following example shows the response.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.chatMessage",
  "isCollection": true
} -->
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json

{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#chats('19%3A2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437%40thread.v2')/messages",
    "@odata.count": 2,
    "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages?$top=2&$orderBy=lastModifiedDateTime desc&$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2022-09-22T00:00:00.000Z and lastModifiedDateTime le 2022-09-24T00:00:00.000Z&$skiptoken=M2UyZDAwMDAwMDMxMzkzYTMyNjQ2MTM0NjMzMjM5NjYzNjY0MzczMDM0MzE2NTYzNjEzNzMwNjIzNjMzMzg2MjM0MzM2NDM0MzUzNDMzMzc0MDc0Njg3MjY1NjE2NDJlNzYzMjAxZThmYjY4M2Y3ODAxMDAwMDg4NjA5ODdhNzgwMTAwMDB8MTYxNjk2NDUwOTgzMg%3d%3d",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1616964509832",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1616964509832",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "text",
                "content": "Hello world"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        },
        {
            "id": "1615971548136",
            "replyToId": null,
            "etag": "1615971548136",
            "messageType": "message",
            "createdDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastModifiedDateTime": "2022-09-23T00:00:00.000Z",
            "lastEditedDateTime": null,
            "deletedDateTime": null,
            "subject": null,
            "summary": null,
            "chatId": "19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2",
            "importance": "normal",
            "locale": "en-us",
            "webUrl": null,
            "channelIdentity": null,
            "onBehalfOf": null,
            "policyViolation": null,
            "eventDetail": null,
            "from": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "id": "8ea0e38b-efb3-4757-924a-5f94061cf8c2",
                    "displayName": "Robin Kline",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser"
                }
            },
            "body": {
                "contentType": "html",
                "content": "<div><div><div><span><img height=\"63\" src=\"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/chats/19:2da4c29f6d7041eca70b638b43d45437@thread.v2/messages/1615971548136/hostedContents/aWQ9eF8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNix0eXBlPTEsdXJsPWh0dHBzOi8vdXMtYXBpLmFzbS5za3lwZS5jb20vdjEvb2JqZWN0cy8wLXd1cy1kOS1lNTRmNjM1NWYxYmJkNGQ3ZTNmNGJhZmU4NTI5MTBmNi92aWV3cy9pbWdv/$value\" width=\"67\" style=\"vertical-align:bottom; width:67px; height:63px\"></span></div></div></div>"
            },
            "attachments": [],
            "mentions": [],
            "reactions": []
        }
    ]
}
```

<!-- uuid: 8fcb5dbc-d5aa-4681-8e31-b001d5168d79
2015-10-25 14:57:30 UTC -->
<!--
{
  "type": "#page.annotation",
  "description": "Get chat messages",
  "keywords": "",
  "section": "documentation",
  "tocPath": "",
  "suppressions": [
  ]
}
-->
