api-reference/beta/api/teamsappsettings-update.md, before:

---
title: "Update teamsAppSettings"
description: "Update the properties of a teamsAppSettings object."
author: "subray2014"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "microsoft-teams"
doc_type: apiPageType
---

# Update teamsAppSettings
Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Update the properties of a [teamsAppSettings](../resources/teamsappsettings.md) object.

## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

>**Note:** Only global administrators and Teams administrators can call this API.

|Permission type|Permissions (from least to most privileged)|
|:---|:---|
|Delegated (work or school account)|TeamworkAppSettings.ReadWrite.All|
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account)|Not supported|
|Application|Not supported|

> [!NOTE]
> TeamworkAppSettings.* permissions might not be visible in the Azure portal. For details and workarounds, see [known issues](/graph/known-issues#teamworkappsettings-permissions-are-not-visible-in-the-azure-portal).

## HTTP request

<!-- {
  "blockType": "ignored"
}
-->
``` http
PATCH /teamwork/teamsAppSettings
```

## Request headers
|Name|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|Bearer {token}. Required.|
|Content-Type|application/json. Required.|

## Request body
[!INCLUDE [table-intro](../../includes/update-property-table-intro.md)]


|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|isChatResourceSpecificConsentEnabled|Boolean|Indicates whether resource-specific consent for chats/meetings has been enabled for the tenant. If true, Teams apps that are allowed in the tenant and require resource-specific permissions can be installed inside chats and meetings. If false, the installation of any Teams app that requires resource-specific permissions in a chat or a meeting will be blocked.|



## Response

If successful, this method returns a `204 No Content` response code.

## Examples

### Example 1: Enable installation of apps that require resource-specific consent in chats/meetings.

#### Request


# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "update_teamsappsettings"
}
-->
``` http
PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/teamwork/teamsAppSettings
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.teamsAppSettings",
  "isChatResourceSpecificConsentEnabled": "true"
}
```

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/csharp/update-teamsappsettings-csharp-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/javascript/update-teamsappsettings-javascript-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Java](#tab/java)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/java/update-teamsappsettings-java-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [Go](#tab/go)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/go/update-teamsappsettings-go-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/powershell/update-teamsappsettings-powershell-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

# [PHP](#tab/php)
[!INCLUDE [sample-code](../includes/snippets/php/update-teamsappsettings-php-snippets.md)]
[!INCLUDE [sdk-documentation](../includes/snippets/snippets-sdk-documentation-link.md)]

---


#### Response

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response"
} -->

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## See also

- [Resource-specific consent](/microsoftteams/platform/graph-api/rsc/resource-specific-consent)

Commit message:

Updating teamsAppSettings to toggle user app requets

api-reference/beta/api/teamsappsettings-update.md, after:

---
title: "Update teamsAppSettings"
description: "Update the properties of a teamsAppSettings object."
author: "subray2014"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "microsoft-teams"
doc_type: apiPageType
---

# Update teamsAppSettings
Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Update the properties of a [teamsAppSettings](../resources/teamsappsettings.md) object.

## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

>**Note:** Only global administrators and Teams administrators can call this API.

|Permission type|Permissions (from least to most privileged)|
|:---|:---|
|Delegated (work or school account)|TeamworkAppSettings.ReadWrite.All|
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account)|Not supported|
|Application|Not supported|

> [!NOTE]
> TeamworkAppSettings.* permissions might not be visible in the Azure portal. For details and workarounds, see [known issues](/graph/known-issues#teamworkappsettings-permissions-are-not-visible-in-the-azure-portal).

## HTTP request

<!-- {
  "blockType": "ignored"
}
-->
``` http
PATCH /teamwork/teamsAppSettings
```

## Request headers
|Name|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|Bearer {token}. Required.|
|Content-Type|application/json. Required.|

## Request body
[!INCLUDE [table-intro](../../includes/update-property-table-intro.md)]


|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|isChatResourceSpecificConsentEnabled|Boolean|Indicates whether resource-specific consent for chats/meetings has been enabled for the tenant. If true, Teams apps that are allowed in the tenant and require resource-specific permissions can be installed inside chats and meetings. If false, the installation of any Teams app that requires resource-specific permissions in a chat or a meeting will be blocked.|
|allowUserRequestsForAppAccess|Boolean|Indicates whether user requests for app approval have been enabled for the tenant. If true, users are able to request approval from the tenant admin for app installation.|



## Response

If successful, this method returns a `204 No Content` response code.

## Examples

### Example 1: Enable installation of apps that require resource-specific consent in chats/meetings.

#### Request


# [HTTP](#tab/http)
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "update_teamsappsettings"
}
-->
```msgraph-interactive
PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/teamwork/teamsAppSettings
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.teamsAppSettings",
  "isChatResourceSpecificConsentEnabled": "true"
}
```

---


#### Response

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response"
} -->

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## See also

- [Resource-specific consent](/microsoftteams/platform/graph-api/rsc/resource-specific-consent)
